readme.md, before:

# Chrome DevTools frontend

The client-side of the Chrome DevTools, including all JS & CSS to run the DevTools webapp.

It is available on NPM as the [chrome-devtools-frontend](https://www.npmjs.com/package/chrome-devtools-frontend) package. It's not currently available via CJS or ES2015 modules, so consuming this package in other tools may require [some effort](https://github.com/paulirish/devtools-timeline-model/blob/master/index.js).

#### Package versioning
The version number of the npm package (e.g. `1.0.373466`) refers to the Chromium commit position of latest frontend git commit. It's incremented with every Chromium commit, however the package is updated roughly daily.


### Source code
The frontend is available through a git subtree mirror on [chromium.googlesource.com](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/third_party/WebKit/Source/devtools/), with a regularly updating GitHub mirror at [github.com/ChromeDevTools/devtools-frontend](https://github.com/ChromeDevTools/devtools-frontend). The codebase's true location is in `third_party/WebKit/Source/devtools/` in [Chromium's git repo](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/).



### Hacking
* DevTools documentation: [devtools.chrome.com](https://devtools.chrome.com)
* [Debugging protocol docs](https://developer.chrome.com/devtools/docs/debugger-protocol) and [Chrome Debugging Protocol Viewer](http://chromedevtools.github.io/debugger-protocol-viewer/)
* [awesome-chrome-devtools](https://github.com/paulirish/awesome-chrome-devtools): recommended tools and resources
* Contributing to DevTools: [bit.ly/devtools-contribution-guide](http://bit.ly/devtools-contribution-guide)


#### Development
* All devtools commits: [View the log], [RSS feed] or [@DevToolsCommits] on Twitter
* [All open DevTools tickets] on crbug.com
* File a new DevTools ticket: [new.crbug.com](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/entry?labels=OS-All,Type-Bug,Pri-2&components=Platform%3EDevTools)
* Code reviews mailing list: [devtools-reviews@chromium.org]

### Getting in touch
* [@ChromeDevTools] on Twitter
* Chrome DevTools mailing list: [groups.google.com/forum/google-chrome-developer-tools](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/google-chrome-developer-tools)

  [devtools-reviews@chromium.org]: https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/forum/#!forum/devtools-reviews
  [RSS feed]: https://feeds.peter.sh/chrome-devtools/
  [View the log]: https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/third_party/WebKit/Source/devtools/+log/master
  [@ChromeDevTools]: http://twitter.com/ChromeDevTools
  [@DevToolsCommits]: http://twitter.com/DevToolsCommits
  [all open DevTools tickets]: https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/list?can=2&q=component%3APlatform%3EDevTools&sort=&groupby=&colspec=ID+Stars+Owner+Summary+Modified+Opened

Commit message:

DevTools: find and launch chrome in debug mode
Cross-platform node.js script to automatically find Chrome Canary (in Mac and Windows)
and launch it with debug flags.

I've updated README which explains the workflow for users.

Workflow commands (from /devtools):
* npm start - starts Chrome and development server
* npm run chrome - starts Chrome browser
* npm run server - starts development server

BUG=629914

Review-Url: https://codereview.chromium.org/2337713002
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#418469}

readme.md, after:

# Chrome DevTools frontend

The client-side of the Chrome DevTools, including all JS & CSS to run the DevTools webapp.

It is available on NPM as the [chrome-devtools-frontend](https://www.npmjs.com/package/chrome-devtools-frontend) package. It's not currently available via CJS or ES2015 modules, so consuming this package in other tools may require [some effort](https://github.com/paulirish/devtools-timeline-model/blob/master/index.js).

#### Package versioning
The version number of the npm package (e.g. `1.0.373466`) refers to the Chromium commit position of latest frontend git commit. It's incremented with every Chromium commit, however the package is updated roughly daily.

### Source code
The frontend is available through a git subtree mirror on [chromium.googlesource.com](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/third_party/WebKit/Source/devtools/), with a regularly updating GitHub mirror at [github.com/ChromeDevTools/devtools-frontend](https://github.com/ChromeDevTools/devtools-frontend). The codebase's true location is in `third_party/WebKit/Source/devtools/` in [Chromium's git repo](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/).

### Getting Started

1. Clone the repo
2. Go to repo root and run:  `npm start`
    - This launches Chrome Canary and starts the dev server with 1 command
3. Go to http://localhost:8090

> **Power user tips:**
>
> You can customize the port for the dev server: e.g. `PORT=8888 npm start`.
>
> You can also launch chrome and start the server separately:
> - `npm run chrome`
> - `npm run server`
>
> When you start Chrome separately, you can pass extra args to Chrome:
> ```
> npm run chrome -- https://news.ycombinator.com
> ```
> (e.g. this launches Hacker News on startup)

### Hacking
* DevTools documentation: [devtools.chrome.com](https://devtools.chrome.com)
* [Debugging protocol docs](https://developer.chrome.com/devtools/docs/debugger-protocol) and [Chrome Debugging Protocol Viewer](http://chromedevtools.github.io/debugger-protocol-viewer/)
* [awesome-chrome-devtools](https://github.com/paulirish/awesome-chrome-devtools): recommended tools and resources
* Contributing to DevTools: [bit.ly/devtools-contribution-guide](http://bit.ly/devtools-contribution-guide)


#### Development
* All devtools commits: [View the log], [RSS feed] or [@DevToolsCommits] on Twitter
* [All open DevTools tickets] on crbug.com
* File a new DevTools ticket: [new.crbug.com](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/entry?labels=OS-All,Type-Bug,Pri-2&components=Platform%3EDevTools)
* Code reviews mailing list: [devtools-reviews@chromium.org]

### Getting in touch
* [@ChromeDevTools] on Twitter
* Chrome DevTools mailing list: [groups.google.com/forum/google-chrome-developer-tools](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/google-chrome-developer-tools)

  [devtools-reviews@chromium.org]: https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/forum/#!forum/devtools-reviews
  [RSS feed]: https://feeds.peter.sh/chrome-devtools/
  [View the log]: https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/third_party/WebKit/Source/devtools/+log/master
  [@ChromeDevTools]: http://twitter.com/ChromeDevTools
  [@DevToolsCommits]: http://twitter.com/DevToolsCommits
  [all open DevTools tickets]: https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/list?can=2&q=component%3APlatform%3EDevTools&sort=&groupby=&colspec=ID+Stars+Owner+Summary+Modified+Opened
