docs/installation.md, before:

# Dirac DevTools Installation

Dirac integration with your project requires some effort and can be configured in many ways.
In this document I will discuss standard configuration with Leiningen. For custom configuration refer to [this document](configuration.md).

If this is your first Dirac installation and you are not familiar with Dirac features
I first recommend following [the demo walktrough in Dirac Example project](https://github.com/binaryage/dirac-sample) to learn
the basics and test-drive Dirac on properly-configured project.

Here are the ingredients you are going to need:

1. [Dirac Chrome Extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/dirac-devtools/kbkdngfljkchidcjpnfcgcokkbhlkogi) installed in your Chrome Canary
1. Dirac Runtime - a ClojureScript library installed in your page
1. nREPL server with Dirac nREPL middleware
1. Dirac Agent - a helper server providing a proxy tunnel between the nREPL server and the Dirac Extension

#### Setup Dirac Chrome Extension

Please note that [you should always use the latest Chrome Canary](faq.md#why-should-i-use-recent-chrome-canary-with-dirac-devtools) with Dirac DevTools to prevent any compatibility issues.

You probably want to run your Chrome Canary with dedicated user profile. And you have to run it with [remote debugging](https://developer.chrome.com/devtools/docs/debugger-protocol) enabled.

    /Applications/Google\ Chrome\ Canary.app/Contents/MacOS/Google\ Chrome\ Canary \
      --remote-debugging-port=9222 \
      --no-first-run \
      --user-data-dir=$A_PATH_TO_YOUR_USER_PROFILE_DIRECTORY

Please note that `--remote-debugging-port` should be 9222 by default. But you can change it in the Dirac Extension `options page` if needed.

Now install the [Dirac Chrome Extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/dirac-devtools/kbkdngfljkchidcjpnfcgcokkbhlkogi). Chrome should keep it up-to-date for you.

#### Install the Dirac Runtime

You should add the Dirac dependency to your project:

[![Clojars Project](https://img.shields.io/clojars/v/binaryage/dirac.svg)](https://clojars.org/binaryage/dirac)

    :dependencies [[binaryage/dirac "<DIRAC-VERSION>"]]

And also install runtime support in your main page(s):

```clojure
(ns your-project.namespace
  (:require [dirac.runtime]))

(dirac.runtime/install!)
```

#### Start nREPL server

There are many ways how to start an nREPL server. We will use Leiningen's nREPL server here.

By default you should run it on port `8230` and with `dirac.nrepl/middleware` middleware. Please note that Dirac middleware
was implemented as a [Piggieback middleware](https://github.com/cemerick/piggieback) fork, so you cannot run both.
Think of Dirac middleware as a Piggieback middleware replacement with some extra features specific to Dirac DevTools.

The configuration snippet could look something like this:

    :repl-options {:port 8230
                   :nrepl-middleware [dirac.nrepl/middleware]}

Replace `<DIRAC-VERSION>` with actual version of your Dirac Runtime.

I tend to put this extra config under `:repl` profile in my `project.clj` files
(see an [example here](https://github.com/binaryage/dirac-sample/blob/master/project.clj)).

#### Start Dirac Agent

Dirac Agent is a program which connects to an existing nREPL server and acts as a proxy providing nREPL connections to the browser.

Please note that Dirac **DevTools** frontend is "just" a web app. It cannot open a classic TCP socket connection and talk to the nREPL server directly.
Instead it connects to a Dirac **Agent** instance which listens for web socket connections on port 8231. Dirac **Agent** in turn has an open connection
to your nREPL server at port 8230 so it can bridge messages between the two. Tunneling messages between
the browser and the nREPL server is the main feature of Dirac **Agent**. Sometimes you might see (error) messages mentioning "nREPL Tunnel",
which is a component of Dirac **Agent**.

Actually Dirac **Agent** is a bit smarter than that. It allows one-to-many scenario where multiple Dirac **DevTools** instances
can connect to a singe Dirac **Agent** which talks to a single nREPL server. Each Dirac **DevTools** instance is assigned its own nREPL session
so they don't step on each others' toes. Thanks to sessions you can open multiple pages with different Dirac **DevTools** and
they all can have their own independent REPLs.

Unfortunately this is the hardest part of the setup and most fragile.
If you run into issues it is pretty difficult to troubleshoot it without deeper understanding
[how nREPL works internally](https://github.com/clojure/tools.nrepl), what [Piggieback](https://github.com/cemerick/piggieback) is,
how [Weasel](https://github.com/tomjakubowski/weasel) comes into play and how Dirac Agent orchestrates all this.

If you hit a wall you can try to ask for help in the `#dirac` channel at http://clojurians.slack.com ([ask for an invitation here](http://clojurians.net/)).

Now let's get back to launching the Dirac **Agent**. You can wrap it as a command-line tool and run it. The source for cli tool is [here](https://github.com/binaryage/dirac/blob/master/src/agent/dirac/agent_cli.clj).
Here is a custom launcher script which uses maven to download dirac jar and execute `agent-cli` with your current java env from command-line:

[https://github.com/binaryage/dirac/blob/master/scripts/agent-launcher.sh](https://github.com/binaryage/dirac/blob/master/scripts/agent-launcher.sh)

But I have a better idea. Why spin up yet another JVM just to run this tiny server? Let's use our existing nREPL process
and start the Dirac **Agent** there. This will effectively run nREPL server and Dirac **Agent** in one process side-by-side.

You can configure it as `:init` command which will be executed every time you start your REPL. Simply add this to your
`:repl-options` for Leiningen:

    :repl-options {:init (do
                           (require 'dirac.agent)
                           (dirac.agent/boot!))}

Now when you start `lein repl` from command-line you should see something like this:

    nREPL server started on port 8230 on host 127.0.0.1 - nrepl://127.0.0.1:8230
    REPL-y 0.3.7, nREPL 0.2.10
    Clojure 1.8.0
    Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM 1.8.0_60-b27
        Docs: (doc function-name-here)
              (find-doc "part-of-name-here")
      Source: (source function-name-here)
     Javadoc: (javadoc java-object-or-class-here)
        Exit: Control+D or (exit) or (quit)
     Results: Stored in vars *1, *2, *3, an exception in *e

    user=>
    Dirac Agent v0.5.0
    Connected to nREPL server at nrepl://localhost:8230.
    Agent is accepting connections at ws://localhost:8231.

The last line should remind you that Dirac **Agent** started successfully and is listening for browser connections on port 8231.

Now you should be able to use REPL from any of your Dirac **DevTools** instances.

Commit message:

Add documentation around using a "RELEASE" version

docs/installation.md, after:

# Dirac DevTools Installation

Dirac integration with your project requires some effort and can be configured in many ways.
In this document I will discuss standard configuration with Leiningen. For custom configuration refer to [this document](configuration.md).

If this is your first Dirac installation and you are not familiar with Dirac features
I first recommend following [the demo walktrough in Dirac Example project](https://github.com/binaryage/dirac-sample) to learn
the basics and test-drive Dirac on properly-configured project.

Here are the ingredients you are going to need:

1. [Dirac Chrome Extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/dirac-devtools/kbkdngfljkchidcjpnfcgcokkbhlkogi) installed in your Chrome Canary
1. Dirac Runtime - a ClojureScript library installed in your page
1. nREPL server with Dirac nREPL middleware
1. Dirac Agent - a helper server providing a proxy tunnel between the nREPL server and the Dirac Extension

#### Setup Dirac Chrome Extension

Please note that [you should always use the latest Chrome Canary](faq.md#why-should-i-use-recent-chrome-canary-with-dirac-devtools) with Dirac DevTools to prevent any compatibility issues.

You probably want to run your Chrome Canary with dedicated user profile. And you have to run it with [remote debugging](https://developer.chrome.com/devtools/docs/debugger-protocol) enabled.

    /Applications/Google\ Chrome\ Canary.app/Contents/MacOS/Google\ Chrome\ Canary \
      --remote-debugging-port=9222 \
      --no-first-run \
      --user-data-dir=$A_PATH_TO_YOUR_USER_PROFILE_DIRECTORY

Please note that `--remote-debugging-port` should be 9222 by default. But you can change it in the Dirac Extension `options page` if needed.

Now install the [Dirac Chrome Extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/dirac-devtools/kbkdngfljkchidcjpnfcgcokkbhlkogi). Chrome should keep it up-to-date for you.

#### Install the Dirac Runtime

There are two options for installing the Dirac dependency to your project. You can use a specific version of the dependency, or use `RELEASE` to always get the latest released version.

Normally it would be best practice to specify the version so your dependencies don't change unexpectedly. However as the Chrome plugin automatically updates itself, and Dirac won't run if the Chrome plugin version doesn't match the version in your `project.clj`, there may not be a lot of benefit to pinning the version in your `project.clj`. You can do either:

[![Clojars Project](https://img.shields.io/clojars/v/binaryage/dirac.svg)](https://clojars.org/binaryage/dirac)

    :dependencies [[binaryage/dirac "<DIRAC-VERSION>"]] ;; Use the version from the Clojars badge above

or

    :dependencies [[binaryage/dirac "RELEASE"]]

You will also need to install runtime support in your main page(s):

```clojure
(ns your-project.namespace
  (:require [dirac.runtime]))

(dirac.runtime/install!)
```

#### Start nREPL server

There are many ways how to start an nREPL server. We will use Leiningen's nREPL server here.

By default you should run it on port `8230` and with `dirac.nrepl/middleware` middleware. Please note that Dirac middleware
was implemented as a [Piggieback middleware](https://github.com/cemerick/piggieback) fork, so you cannot run both.
Think of Dirac middleware as a Piggieback middleware replacement with some extra features specific to Dirac DevTools.

The configuration snippet could look something like this:

    :repl-options {:port 8230
                   :nrepl-middleware [dirac.nrepl/middleware]}

Replace `<DIRAC-VERSION>` with actual version of your Dirac Runtime.

I tend to put this extra config under `:repl` profile in my `project.clj` files
(see an [example here](https://github.com/binaryage/dirac-sample/blob/master/project.clj)).

#### Start Dirac Agent

Dirac Agent is a program which connects to an existing nREPL server and acts as a proxy providing nREPL connections to the browser.

Please note that Dirac **DevTools** frontend is "just" a web app. It cannot open a classic TCP socket connection and talk to the nREPL server directly.
Instead it connects to a Dirac **Agent** instance which listens for web socket connections on port 8231. Dirac **Agent** in turn has an open connection
to your nREPL server at port 8230 so it can bridge messages between the two. Tunneling messages between
the browser and the nREPL server is the main feature of Dirac **Agent**. Sometimes you might see (error) messages mentioning "nREPL Tunnel",
which is a component of Dirac **Agent**.

Actually Dirac **Agent** is a bit smarter than that. It allows one-to-many scenario where multiple Dirac **DevTools** instances
can connect to a singe Dirac **Agent** which talks to a single nREPL server. Each Dirac **DevTools** instance is assigned its own nREPL session
so they don't step on each others' toes. Thanks to sessions you can open multiple pages with different Dirac **DevTools** and
they all can have their own independent REPLs.

Unfortunately this is the hardest part of the setup and most fragile.
If you run into issues it is pretty difficult to troubleshoot it without deeper understanding
[how nREPL works internally](https://github.com/clojure/tools.nrepl), what [Piggieback](https://github.com/cemerick/piggieback) is,
how [Weasel](https://github.com/tomjakubowski/weasel) comes into play and how Dirac Agent orchestrates all this.

If you hit a wall you can try to ask for help in the `#dirac` channel at http://clojurians.slack.com ([ask for an invitation here](http://clojurians.net/)).

Now let's get back to launching the Dirac **Agent**. You can wrap it as a command-line tool and run it. The source for cli tool is [here](https://github.com/binaryage/dirac/blob/master/src/agent/dirac/agent_cli.clj).
Here is a custom launcher script which uses maven to download dirac jar and execute `agent-cli` with your current java env from command-line:

[https://github.com/binaryage/dirac/blob/master/scripts/agent-launcher.sh](https://github.com/binaryage/dirac/blob/master/scripts/agent-launcher.sh)

But I have a better idea. Why spin up yet another JVM just to run this tiny server? Let's use our existing nREPL process
and start the Dirac **Agent** there. This will effectively run nREPL server and Dirac **Agent** in one process side-by-side.

You can configure it as `:init` command which will be executed every time you start your REPL. Simply add this to your
`:repl-options` for Leiningen:

    :repl-options {:init (do
                           (require 'dirac.agent)
                           (dirac.agent/boot!))}

Now when you start `lein repl` from command-line you should see something like this:

    nREPL server started on port 8230 on host 127.0.0.1 - nrepl://127.0.0.1:8230
    REPL-y 0.3.7, nREPL 0.2.10
    Clojure 1.8.0
    Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM 1.8.0_60-b27
        Docs: (doc function-name-here)
              (find-doc "part-of-name-here")
      Source: (source function-name-here)
     Javadoc: (javadoc java-object-or-class-here)
        Exit: Control+D or (exit) or (quit)
     Results: Stored in vars *1, *2, *3, an exception in *e

    user=>
    Dirac Agent v0.5.0
    Connected to nREPL server at nrepl://localhost:8230.
    Agent is accepting connections at ws://localhost:8231.

The last line should remind you that Dirac **Agent** started successfully and is listening for browser connections on port 8231.

Now you should be able to use REPL from any of your Dirac **DevTools** instances.
